---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 1"
date:   2021-09-21 13:30:21 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---
This week, I was reintroduced to docker in our course and had to complete an assignment with Prometheus Server and Node Exporter. In my opinion, Docker was one of the best tools for testing applications on different machines. Because we can create different containers with specific parameters on a command line, It is easy to startup a virtualized environment quickly. One of the new things I learned with docker is that you can use port mapping to expose certain ports on a container. Port mapping is a great way to enable smooth interaction between containers in multi-container applications or make your Docker ports accessible by services in the outside world. Another important tool we used was Prometheus, Prometheus collects and stores its metrics as time series data. This data is stored with the timestamp at which it was recorded, alongside optional key-value pairs called labels. With prometheus installed on the container, we were able to see the metrics of our container and verify it was ready to receive web requests. With Prometheus, there is also the ability to view a graph to see the total number of /metric requests the Prometheus server has served. We can also enter expressions within the Prometheus query if we want to see certain types of requests and codes. Within the lab, the example provided presented us with an HTTP 200 code. The last tool that was used is Node exporter, With Node exporter we can see a wide variety of hardware and kernel related metrics. Because we had to expose another port for the second portion. I created a new container and exposed both ports 9090 and 9100. One issue I ran into was that if one container already uses an exposed port, docker will list that there is a conflict and will not run the newly made container. I deleted the previous container with only Prometheus and that solved my issue of not being able to open the newly made container. 