---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 4"
date:   2021-10-15 11:58:21 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---
This week was the first time I had the opportunity to actually use ansible for class. In the first ansible lab, the goal was to create Apache and prometheus play books. This way, we can create an automated deployment with very little downtime and rolling updates. One issue I ran into while creating the playbooks was spacing and indentation. Running the playbooks with tabs rather than spaces caused a syntax error on almost every line within the code. To fix this issue I removed all the lines I had tabbed and used spacing line by line. This was a simple fix but was hard to detect within visual studio. What I found interesting was the ability to implement modules for apache.  After getting the playbooks running, I can see how this type of automation would be practically critical in certain working environments. Since there is the possibility of downtime within server management, ansible is a fantastic tool that can be sent and utilized across multiple machines. In regards to rolling updates, a user can implement a few lines of code and update their entire infrastructure quickly and accurately instead of going one by one to every machine. Since many of these tools are open source, we can find that there are many contributions made by it’s users to make the tools far more versatile. What I found was that there are over 100 modules and many of them are from third party developers. For open source projects, apache is one of the largest products available to the public for free that goes beyond http.