---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 6"
date:   2021-10-29 09:55:21 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---
For my sixth blog I wanted to mention what I had previously learned in my information security class. This week I started learning about networking and server attacks. Two attacks I learned about were man in the browser and scripting vulnerabilities. Man in the browser attacks usually begin with a Trojan infecting the computer and installing an extension into the browser configuration, so that when the browser is launched the extension is activated. When a user proceeds to a desired URL, the extension captures all the data from the fields on the form and may even modify some of the entered data. The browser then proceeds to send the data to the server, which performs the transaction and generates a receipt that is sent back to the browser. The malicious extension again captures the receipt data and modifies it so that it appears that a legitimate transaction has occurred. The second type of attack I wanted to mention was scripting based attacks, more specifically javascript based. JavaScript instructions are embedded inside HTML documents, So when a website that uses JavaScript is accessed; the HTML document that contains the JavaScript code is downloaded onto the user’s computer. A malicious JavaScript program could capture and remotely transmit user information without the user’s knowledge. An attacker could capture and send the user’s email address to a remote source or even send a fraudulent email from the user’s email account. Even worse, An attacker could scan the user’s network and then send specific commands to disable security settings, or redirect a user’s browser to an attacker’s malicious website. This was an eyeopener in terms of how vulnerable we are in today's computing vulnerabilities. Users must be far more diligent as their information has become far more prevalent online and in turn has become more valuable to an attacker. 
