---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 5"
date:   2021-10-22 09:38:21 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---
This week in my information security course we learned about cryptography and digital certificates. One of the main topics was that a cryptographic key has to be properly implemented to resist attacks. A strong key must be random with no predictable pattern. The two types of key encryptions are symmetric and asymmetric. Symmetric algorithms create a fixed length of bits known as a block cipher with a secret key that the creator and sender use to encrypt data and the receiver uses to decipher it. An example would be AES encryption as it is a standard in most industries. Asymmetric algorithms use a pair of keys, a public key associated with the creator/sender for encrypting messages and a private key that only the originator knows for decrypting that information. We see this widely on the internet such as RSA. Another topic was digital certificates. A digital certificate is the user’s public key that has been digitally signed by a trusted third party who verifies the owner and that the public key belongs to that owner. It also binds the public key to the certificate. A user who wants a digital certificate generates the public and private keys to be used and then completes a request known as a Certificate Signing Request. Fundamentally, cryptography is a very common practice today in an effort to ensure that only trusted devices and users can connect to a specific network. With the influx of breaches and attacks to databases and networks, it is vital for users to understand the effectiveness of cryptography and why it should be more prevalent to more users. 