---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 7"
date:   2021-11-05 09:55:21 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---
This week I was able to complete the apache configuration lab in CIT 384. The lab mostly consisted of getting the Apache server configured in a way that can host multiple users along with the proper configuration to host certain files in their proper locations. I started by creating a dockerfile to automate the server and implementing the commands as I went through the lab. I began with the modules dir, userdir, and alias. After this, I created the splash page for the website in an html file that I placed within the /var/www/html directory while running apache in ubuntu. Then I created the custom 403/404 pages and placed them within their own directory. I modified the vhosts configuration to take the new error messages instead of the default apache ones. Afterwards, I added all five users using the RUN adduser command. The adduser command places the user's information within the home directory. Within each user's directory, I added a public_html directory to host their own index.html file to specify their own splash page. Then I went back into the vhost.conf file to alias each user page along with repositioning the document root. After testing to make sure that the website works along with all the splash pages for the users, I was able to finish automating the dockerfile and making sure that all the files copy into the proper locations. With this dockerfile, it took much longer for all the commands to process but this would be far faster than implementing all the steps within the lab manually. 
