---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 8"
date:   2021-11-12 07:55:21 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---
This week I completed a lab assignment in Cit 384 that I had found to be very valuable. I started off by creating a user in apache and then placing a public_html directory within that user's directory. I then placed a simple index.html file and wrote the .htaccess file and placed both within the dev directory within public_html. The .htaccess file was configured in a way that required the user to input a password. One thing the lab did not require within the spec was creating a .htpasswd file to access the directory. I learned from this portion that .htaccess files are very versatile and can protect not only subdirectories but the entire website. After placing the .htaccess file, I was not able to access the subdirectory and knew immediately that the file was working as intended. The second portion of the lab focused mainly on hosting multiple domains on a single server. This required more steps than the previous portion. After creating three directories under /var/www/html for the three web pages, I created three vhost.conf files and placed them within /etc/apache2/sites-available. A user typically would update the /etc/hosts file but since we are using docker, we can specify our hosts within the command line by implementing an --add-host flag during startup. Another important feature with apache that I noticed was how we can use IP address hosts and site aliases while configuring the vhost files. At minimum, the vhost file must declare a ServerName and a DocumentRoot. However, IP-based hosts are ideal when your server has multiple network interfaces, such as an internal company network and site aliases are useful if you want to serve the same site on multiple domains.