---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 0"
date:   2021-09-13 12:50:21 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---
This week was my first introduction to using git and familiarizing myself with its capabilities. I would say that it was not a steep learning curve but I did have some challenges along the way. One challenge I had was using git push to upload a file to my repository. Github does not allow pushing from a local repository to a remote one with the http method. But rather, using an SSH key to authenticate that it is truly an authorized user. This in turn provides a sense of integrity to the repository as it is far more secure than the http method. Using git with a command line interface can be extremely useful and efficient depending on the type of work an individual has to complete. Along with the introduction of CIT 480. We are tasked with uploading the weekly blogs using jekyll. This was also another learning opportunity as I have not worked with static site generators prior. Installing jekyll on Mac OS required me to install ruby homebrew in addition. This was due to the file permissions changing with later Mac operating systems. I was then able to install bundler and finally jekyll in order to begin working on the first blog. Overall, In the beginning weeks of this semester, I have come to understand the technical requirements of working within remote environments such as github. Every machine that we use for technical tasks are similar in the aspect of running applications, however; there is a deeper technical requirement to using these applications as file permissions and the functional capability of certain operating systems change with time and task requirements.  